title: Fix conflicts while pulling using git
date: 2017-02-24 14:37:12
tags: [Git]
categories: Technique
---

# Intro
While pulling from remote repository, sometimes there would be error hint like:
'''sh
CONFLICT(content): Merge conflict in modules/test/test.cpp
Automatic merge failed; fix conflicts and then commit the results.
'''
if you open the file `modules/test/test.cpp`, you will see:
```CPP
#include <iostream>
<<<<<<<HEAD
#include <string>
using namespace std;
=======
using namespace std;
>>>>>>>a3e012ab54c16
```

The serial numbers `a3012ab` are generated by git automatically(sometimes, it will be branch name). To view this serial numbers, you can run:
```sh
git log --oneline
```

So what do these symbols mean?

The content between `<<<<<HEAD` and `=======` mean the local version of the current file. And the content between `========` and `>>>>>>>a3e012ab54c16` means the remote version of the current file. What we need to do is to choose a correct version to fix the conflict.

What if there are too much conflicts? For example, currently I working on a branch. For some reason, I need tomerge from another fast-developing branch. Then there would be lots of conflicts while merging since to many things have changed. 

In this case, we can use the `mergetool`.

After we got the errors about conflicts, just run:
```sh
git mergetool
```
Then you can deal with all of conflicts one by one under the diff tools. I use `vimdiff` in default. When open a conflict in vimdiff, there will be 4 splited windows:
From left to right, top to bottom, these windows are:
**Local Version**, **Base (Accesstor) Version**, **Remote Version** and **the version you want**.
in the last window, when you move cursor to `<<<<<HEAD`, then you can type:
'''sh
:diffget RE
'''
then the file will accept the remote version.

Similarly, 
'''sh
:diffget RE      ;using remote version
:diffget LO      ;using local version
:diffget BA      ;using base version
'''

Then conflict will be fixed and you can go on the next conflict and save and quit current file.



